This piece, which is adapted from the book Stories From Architecture (MIT Press), was originally published by the MIT Press Reader and has been republished here with permission.Written on cream paper printed in red with two addresses—Taliesin Spring, Wisconsin, and Paradise Valley, Phoenix, Arizona—this was the only letter that Edith Carlson received from the man described in her copy of Life magazine as “the greatest architect of the twentieth century.”Edith lived in Superior, Wisconsin, where winter can be 35 degrees below zero and frost penetrates to 6 feet. In 1938, she described herself and her project on a Personal Data sheet sent to Frank Lloyd Wright’s office.She wanted:As a librarian, Edith had the inclination and the resources to research a subject thoroughly. Frank Lloyd Wright inspired her, and she had no compunction in writing a peremptory letter to the owners of another Wright residence, the Jacobs family, whose house “Westmoreland” was in Madison. Edith addressed the letter to Mrs. Jacobs, but it was duly returned with the answers written in thick pencil by her husband Herbert.Edith Carlson must have read with attention the article on the Jacobs house in Architectural Forum. But maybe she skimmed over the sentence “The house of moderate cost is not only America’s major architectural problem, but it is the problem most difficult for her major architects,” and instead fixed on the one that followed: “As for me, I would rather solve it with satisfaction to myself … than build anything else I can think of.”In later years, long after her dream of living in a house designed by the great man had finally been extinguished, Edith might have picked up that first single-line note from Wright—“We’ll see what can be done”—and retorted, “But nothing was done.” Pragmatism had been defeated by idealism.It had all started with such optimism. The town of Superior would have an architectural gem, and she would have the house that met her specifications in every detail. In September 1938, Wright’s secretary, Eugene Masselink, had written positively:A great moment. She had already made notes from Modern Architecture magazine and knew that Frank Lloyd Wright believed that modern architecture1. Is clean2. Is honest3. Is functional4. Is organic5. Is beautifulBut Edith’s attempts to engage directly with her architect were met with a trail of evasive replies from Masselink.However, spring did not bring the green shoots Edith was hoping for.Leafing through her notes, she came across a quote by one Albert W. Atwood that she had copied out from Barron’s financial paper in January 1939. It now seemed upsettingly prescient: There are millions of persons who should not own their own homes—the very young, rich or poor, unmarried of any age, childless couples, the widowed, and the elderly.Such cheek. Or was it? The preliminary sketches had arrived mid-April 1939. By return post she sent a check for $165, the 3 percent due on their completion. But once she had seen the drawings, her mind was naturally crowded with questions. Planning, dreaming, and researching her house had taken up almost all her waking thoughts. She had sheaves of notes: ideas jotted down in the middle of the night, corrections, references to relevant articles on every aspect of the house interiors and exterior. Her list of suitable building products was lengthy: Bondex Waterproof Paint, Anaconda Copper Tubes, Victor In-Bilt Ventilators, Sta-Lite Board, Prometheus Bathroom Heaters, Lucke Leak-Proof Bath Tubs, Nofuze Multi-Breakers, Flinkkote Mastic, Armicron Mortar Proofing, Lapidolith Liquid for Concrete Floors, Drival Damp-proofing. And naturally for a person who had studied botany at university, lists of plants for the garden (hepatica, trillium, clintonia, scilla).She looked over her draft of a letter sent to Masselink in the fall of 1939, more than a year after her first letter from him.She thought she had explained everything when she finally traveled to Taliesin in August. What a waste of time that had been. The drawings subsequently arrived, but as she had explained to Edgar Tafel, the architect from Wright’s office assigned to her project (here was the carbon, Dec. 26, 1939):Was she losing faith? Did she actually write and say “It is no longer Mr. Wright’s ‘Below Zero,’ it is my ‘High Spruces.’ ” Or had she just scribbled it on her draft letter? A much better name. She had disagreed with his siting of the house precisely because of them:She had anyway felt there was perhaps a hint of mockery in “Below Zero,” since she had made her anxiety about the efficiency and cost of Mr. Wright’s underfloor heating patently clear on numerous occasions. She could not afford to be experimental, Mr. Wright must realize that.She had written again—several times—to Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs, asking about the heating in their house. Only recently Mr. Jacobs had admitted to having spent money on a new heating plant. “And don’t get discouraged,” he had written as a postscript, “It’s worth all the trouble, once you’re in. Occasional reminders of your existence help to jog Mr. Wright into action, we found.” Well, she’d certainly sent those. Edith remembered how exasperated she had felt on receiving a letter from Edgar Tafel written in December 1939. She could not comprehend why decisions could not be final.The client tartly replied: “Mr. Wright’s house No. 204, is also my house No. 1—or is it?” Edith had needed to explain so much because Mr. Wright would of course be quite unable to design her house without precise knowledge of her circumstances. She acknowledged that there had been changes over the last 18 months. Her mother had decided not to live with her, so she would have two single women renters instead of her original plan for one. With this in mind she had sent Mr. Wright her own amended floor plan, while waiting impatiently for an answer from Taliesin. She spelled out the logic:She had penciled on her carbon copy “I am sick and tired of hearing people say Mr. Wright is wonderful, but he is not practical.” At the same time Edith Carlson realized, perhaps, that she had been a bit ambitious at the start. She hoped to have a car one day, so wanted a garage, and then had decided it should be a double garage to attract renters.Had Mr. Wright been snowed under by her demands? She was a librarian. She liked order and lists. She looked again at a further set of comments that she’d made on his floor plan. They all seemed eminently sensible.Maybe this barrage had been brusque, but being direct was in her nature.In November 1939, the office of Frank Lloyd Wright drew up five pages of specifications: “Building Instructions, Dwelling for Edith Carlson, Superior, Wisconsin.” But it was too late. At New Year 1940, the town of Superior was forced to make economies. The library had its budget slashed, Edith’s annual salary was cut by $200, and all library employees took four weeks without pay. Edith wrote to Edgar Tafel on Jan. 12, 1940:An unusually prompt reply came from Frank Lloyd Wright’s secretary, Eugene Masselink, emollient over the siting and fenestration but anxious about the financing of the project:But Edith had not applied for the loan, nor did construction begin. An undated copy of a letter to Edgar Tafel was her last communication with the office of the great architect.