Is it any surprise that two of the main authors of the partisan election review in Arizona didn’t even show up to Thursday’s hearing by the House Oversight Committee to investigate their report? The so-called audit in Maricopa County found no evidence of election irregularities and even turned up more votes for President Joe Biden. But that hasn’t stopped the review’s leaders from suggesting Trump won in Arizona. Yet on Thursday, two leaders of the Cyber Ninjas investigation thought it better to stay home than to testify under oath that their review signaled a win for the former president.Their absence, however, made way for a refreshing moment of truth when the Senate liaison to the partisan review testified, rejecting the claims that Trump won the state. Still, Republicans on the committee attempted to paint the “audit” as necessary for exploring election “irregularities” that were never quite specified and have never been proven.Despite a brief moment of clarity, the hearing once again showed that there is literally nothing that can convince Trump’s backers in Congress and around the country that he lost the election. But convincing people of the facts is not the point. These sorts of hyperpartisan so-called audits are proliferating around the country. And Thursday’s no-shows further confirm that Cyber Ninjas’ partisan review of the 2020 election is actually an attempt to cast doubt on our election integrity, paving the way for future interference.First, it’s worth noting who didn’t cooperate with the hearing. Doug Logan, the Cyber Ninjas CEO in charge of the audit who has touted conspiracy theories that a dead Venezuelan dictator somehow helped Democrats cheat in the election, declined to even attend or turn over any documents related to his partisan inquiry. Instead, at the time of the hearing, Logan was being interviewed by a fellow conspiracy theorist who is facing a lawsuit for allegedly defaming a Dominion Voting Systems employee.Second, Shiva Ayyadurai, the former Republican electoral candidate who made multiple false claims as part of his “analysis” of signatures on Maricopa County ballot envelopes, did not show up as originally scheduled. Ayyadurai, who has spread conspiracy theories about the COVID-19 vaccine and made false claims that 1 million ballots were destroyed in his own failed primary bid in Massachusetts, was replaced as a Republican witness at the last minute by Senate liaison to the partisan review Ken Bennett.How did Bennett’s testimony go for the GOP? Bennett actually contradicted Republican committee members who suggested the partisan review’s principal finding was possible fraud. In fact, the GOP’s own witness—the Republican official most directly responsible for the audit—rejected Trump’s false claims that the audit proved that he had won in Arizona. The hearing started with a heated back-and-forth between Democratic Maryland Rep. Jamie Raskin and Republican Arizona Rep. Andy Biggs over the review’s main findings, with Biggs parroting Trump’s line that it raised questions about the result. Here’s how that exchange went:Here’s video of part of that exchange:The problem for Biggs, though, is that his side’s own witness contradicted his interpretation and affirmed Raskin’s. As part of his opening testimony, Bennett said this:I attended the partisan review and warned that Cyber Ninjas’ flawed recount procedures might result in a different outcome than the county’s actual canvass. I also warned that, either way, the final report of the partisan review would likely use innuendo about unexplainable “anomalies” to cast doubt on the findings. It’s notable, though, that Bennett refused to repeat the suggestion of the auditors who didn’t show up to testify under oath that Trump, and not Biden, had won in Arizona.Rep. Ro Khanna used his time to note the significance of Bennett’s testimony. Once again, Bennett acknowledged that the partisan review affirmed the final outcome in Maricopa County, contrary to Donald Trump’s claims:For good measure, Khanna followed up to confirm that Bennett and the “auditors” hadn’t found anything in their “paper analysis” of the ballots that would have materially changed the outcome of the election in Arizona.Finally, Bennett acknowledged that Cyber Ninjas ought to abide by court orders and congressional requests to turn over documents and appear for questioning. Logan, the Cyber Ninjas CEO, has so far refused.I have been incredibly skeptical of Bennett’s past statements about the partisan review, which I thought were misleading and mischaracterized. Bennett often refused to acknowledge the actual work that Cyber Ninjas was doing to undermine the election. But it’s notable that when Bennett was called before Congress and sworn under oath to testify, he told the actual truth: Joe Biden won the election in Arizona, and a monthslong, multimillion-dollar effort paid for and conducted by Trump allies could find no evidence to the contrary.