This morning, the Supreme Court is hearing arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health, a case that explicitly asks the high court to overturn Roe v. Wade. Astute listeners are trying to take their clues about the fate of Roe from the questions of the three justices whose votes are unknown—Chief Justice John Roberts, Brett Kavanaugh, and Amy Coney Barrett. This set of conservative justices, while listening to arguments about Texas’ notorious S.B. 8 last month, demonstrated some hesitation about overturning Roe and further dismantling the inherent legitimacy of the highest court in the land.Things haven’t been going well for anyone interested in the court upholding a woman’s right to choose. Just about an hour into arguments, Barrett asked a question that seemed more revealing of her vote than anything else thus far. It was about adoption—as the junior justice put it:You can listen to the lawyer for Jackson Women’s Health attempting to answer Barrett’s question below. First, the lawyer points out that adoption has indeed existed since Roe was first decided and therefore changes to adoption should not mean much. Then, she goes on to make the obvious points that pregnancy and birth in particular have dramatic effects on a woman’s health, and later she suggests that the choice to give a child up for adoption is its own burden, not something to lightly suggest is easy.But Barrett did not seem convinced, replying that neither Roe nor Casey spends much time on adoption, once again suggesting that the existence of adoption might obviate the need for abortion.One of the main arguments the state of Mississippi is making in this case is that pregnancy, and parenthood by extension, is no longer burdensome because of many economic and social developments that make pregnancy safer and parenting easier. (They’re wrong, as Mark Stern points out here.) During arguments today, it appears Barrett is adding adoption to that list, suggesting it’s easy to carry a child to term and easy to give that child up. Perhaps it’s relevant to point out that Barrett is a mother of seven, including two children who are adopted. Roberts has two adopted children, and Justice Clarence Thomas has an adopted child as well.