On Monday, CNN published a trove of text messages sent to and from Mark Meadows, President Donald Trump’s final chief of staff. The texts, sent between Election Day 2020 and Joe Biden’s inauguration, dealt largely with various Trumpworld figures strategizing tactics to overturn the election and trading talking points to spin the events of Jan. 6, 2021.Meadows, who provided the messages to a House committee investigating the Capitol insurrection, fielded urgent questions from members of Congress, Cabinet officials, Trump lawyers and advisers, Fox News figures, Trump family members, and other members of the president’s inner circle—all scrambling to manage the public narrative around the election. (Meadows has sued to block congressional subpoenas, and he has withheld more than 1,000 messages from the committee.)The latest messages published by CNN—from the 2,319 it said it had obtained—fill out the picture that has been drawn over the past few months as other texts leaked. Those texts have revealed that Trump refused to quickly condemn the violence on Jan. 6; that Ginni Thomas, a conservative activist and wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, had accused “Biden and the Left” of “attempting the greatest Heist of our History”; that Donald Trump Jr. had developed a strategy for overturning the election even before the election was called for Biden; and that Utah Sen. Mike Lee and Texas Rep. Chip Roy had offered Meadows a statement supporting Trump to “leak” if it was “helpful.”The new texts hit on the same themes, with additional alarming details, including proof Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene had advocated for Trump to impose martial law to remain president. The texts showed how many powerful people urged the president toward conspiracy theories—and, in a few cases, cast doubt on them.They also, at times, showed how simply absurd powerful people can sound when casually texting about matters related to the very integrity of our democracy. Here are some of the oddest exchanges from Monday’s trove, left in their original, typo-laden form.Rep. Andrew Clyde of Georgia, texting on Jan. 9, 2021, the day after the president had been banned from Twitter for his role in inciting the insurrection:It’s nice that Clyde didn’t just give Meadows a generic idea but also got him rolling on ideas for its branding.An exchange with Fox News host Sean Hannity on Election Day:While Hannity’s support for Trump was no secret, this appears to be the first time it was confirmed Hannity was taking orders from the White House.Donald Trump Jr., texting about the insurrection on Jan. 6, 2021:This is the son of the president of the United States confirming that some men do not, at a certain level of power, outgrow quoting The Godfather to each other.Mike Lindell, the MyPillow CEO and prominent advocate for overturning the election, sent a very long message on Dec. 20, 2020:Lindell also claimed his ability to investigate deviations in numbers was his “gift from God that has made my business so successful.”Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan, the day before the insurrection:Jordan appeared to be the only advocate for overturning the election who, in these texts, got into citing historical documents.Ivanka Trump, in a text on Nov. 5, to Hope Hicks, Jared Kushner, Mark Meadows, Jason Miller, Dan Scavino, and Bill Stepien:Ivanka seemed to know how important morale was to a task as large as overturning an election.Jared Kushner, a month later, in one of his only texts to Meadows:That’s a link to a fact check for one of the most prominent election fraud claims.Meadows, trying to reach Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, on Dec. 5, 2020:Meadows had twice tried to reach Raffensperger, who had been vilified for certifying his state’s election. Raffensperger did not appear to reply to Meadows’ text.Rick Perry, texting on Nov. 7, 2020, just hours before the election was called:Perry, the former Texas governor who served as secretary of energy under Trump, had previously been the subject of reports that he had advocated for a strategy to overturn the election. Perry had denied these reports. Thankfully, he signs his texts with his full name.