Since Justice Samuel Alito’s draft majority opinion striking down Roe v. Wade was leaked on Monday, it has been widely denounced as extremist to the point of being radical.The outcome of the opinion itself was not surprising to court-watchers, though. Many have anticipated that the conservative-packed Supreme Court would be issuing a ruling striking down the constitutional right to an abortion, or whittling it down to all but a dead letter.What many did not anticipate, though, were the startling implications of the way in which Alito reached his opinion. The ultraconservative George W. Bush appointee’s opinion coarsened the abortion debate by vilifying “abortionists” and “murderess[es],” opened the door to the court abolishing other unenumerated rights rooted in the 14th Amendment such as the right to birth control and freedom to marry, and allowed for the possibility that legislators might punish people who don’t get an abortion but exercise basic freedoms—such as drinking coffee—during pregnancy in a way that might be harmful to “prenatal life at all stages of development.”It’s worth considering the most extreme lines in Alito’s full 98-page opinion to fully understand just how much Alito has adopted the most extreme and dangerous views of the anti-abortion movement.[Read: Why Alito Can’t Find the Right to Abortion in the Constitution]Constitutional rights not “rooted in the Nation’s history and tradition,” such as the right to an abortion, are not legitimate rights at all.Alito repeatedly claims that his opinion only covers abortion and should not “be understood to cast doubt on precedents that do not concern abortion.” But if you read the opinion in its entirety, it’s clear that Alito lays down the future groundwork for overturning any number of “fundamental” rights that purportedly do not have grounding “in our Nation’s history.” Alito lays out why such unenumerated rights grounded in “a right to privacy, which is … not mentioned” in the Constitution are bad:Sometimes the court has overstepped in accepting these rights, Alito notes:Again, these statements implicate all of the “liberty-based” rights listed above. For good measure, Alito lets us know which other rights were not “mentioned in the Constitution” or allegedly grounded in our nation’s history: interracial marriage, contraception, the right not to be nonconsensually sterilized, the right to reside with relatives, the right to make decisions about your children’s education, the “right to engage in consensual” and private “same-sex intimacy,” and the right to same sex marriage, just to name a few.Alito implies that acknowledging rights that are not “deeply rooted in history,” such as these, could open the door to protecting the right to “illicit drug use, prostitution, and the like.”Alito justifies overturning nearly 50 years of precedent because he says women don’t have any real reliance on Roe.Alito writes of the 1992 ruling Planned Parenthood v. Casey—which struck down a Pennsylvania law that would have required married women seeking an abortion to notify their husbands—that the court came up with a phony reliance interest to justify upholding Roe on the basis of stare decisis. In his draft, Alito notes that women’s reliance on abortion is of a lower order than the reliance interests that arise “in cases involving property and contract rights.” The court, he writes, is “ill-equipped to assess ‘generalized assertions about the national psyche,’ ” with respect to the way abortion figures in the lives of women across the country.It’s thus impossible to say, according to Alito, that women rely on Roe:Alito cites outdated science and questionable common law from the 17th and 18th centuries to justify abortion bans that would criminalize women for terminating their pregnancies.Alito writes:In delving into this ahistorical analysis, Alito uses the creepiest possible terminology to describe what has been for the last 50 years a common and legal medical practice. He repeatedly refers to reproductive care providers as “abortionists.” He obsesses over pre-Victorian medical terms with contested meanings, such as “quickening.”Alito also approvingly cites language describing one woman who had received an abortion as a “murderess.” And he considers other random 17th and 18th century punishments for abortion:Alito lays out what he calls a “proto-felony-murder rule” categorizing failed abortions that kill the mother as criminal. As if these passages aren’t a disturbing enough foray into questionable science and morality from an era in which women and children were regarded as property of their husbands, he presses on into the 19th century to suggest that the reproductive health care practices of the time were somehow more “scientific” than modern practices. To do this he cites approvingly an 1848 case and terms like “in ventre sa mere”:Again, Alito leaves the door open for “personhood” legislation, or even a future ruling recognizing the “personhood” of a fetus:What are Alito’s primary sources for this dubious framework? One is a 1732 journal called Gentleman’s Magazine.Alito misleadingly cites court precedent to claim that banning abortion is definitively not sex discrimination. Alito argues:To make this claim he cites two cases, one post-Roe and another post-Casey. Those are 1974’s Geduldig v. Aiello and 1993’s Bray v. Alexandria Women’s Health Clinic. But those cases were about disability rights for women who experienced complications during pregnancy and the First Amendment rights of anti-abortion protesters, not about abortion itself. Most notably, Alito claims that the Bray court decided the “ ‘goal of preventing abortion’ does not constitute ‘invidiously discriminatory animus against women.’ ” Again, though, that case was about protesters seeking to prevent women from having abortions, not the state mandating an abortion ban. What Bray actually says is this:The key qualifier there is “apart from use of unlawful means to achieve it.” One year earlier, the court had upheld Roe in Casey and determined that abortion bans were an “unlawful means to achieve it.”Alito frames himself as a champion of women, who can now decide these issues at the ballot box—without acknowledging those ballot boxes have been rigged by Supreme Court decisions eviscerating voting rights.Alito compares Roe and Casey to some of the most abhorrent precedents in Supreme Court history, including the ruling that upheld segregation.Finally, Alito lays out a laundry list of reasons lawmakers can have to ban all abortions, including such Orwellian straw men as “discrimination on the basis of … sex” and “the protection of maternal health”:Read more of Slate’s coverage on abortion rights here.