Republican Sen. Mike Braun is attempting a rather unconvincing cleanup job after telling reporters on Tuesday that the Supreme Court was wrong to strike down state laws banning interracial marriage in its landmark 1967 decision, Loving v. Virginia.Braun, the junior senator from Indiana, made his comments during a media call in which he argued that policy issues should generally be left in the hands of state governments whenever possible, especially in the case of abortion.“So you would be OK with the Supreme Court leaving the question of interracial marriage to the states?” a reporter asked.“Yes,” Braun answered. “I think that that’s something that if you’re not wanting the Supreme Court to weigh in on issues like that, you’re not going to be able to have your cake and eat it too. I think that’s hypocritical.“That sounded pretty unambiguous! But afterward, Braun’s office issued a statement attempting to walk back the comment, suggesting he had misunderstood the question despite having seemingly answered with unblinking certitude.Could this really have been an honest misunderstanding? Let’s look at the fuller transcript, starting with where the reporter first asks about abortion.For context, keep in mind that this exchange occurred after a long question-and-answer session, in which Braun repeatedly suggested that states should handle major policy issues when it was practical, even including ones like marijuana legalization that conservatives often prefer to address federally.There are some mush-mouthed bits here and there, but overall, Braun certainly seems to understand what he’s talking about, and in fact sounds like a man who has given this whole topic very careful consideration. The first time the reporter asks him about interracial marriage, he says “you can’t have it both ways” when it comes to states’ rights, and that “diversity” is the “beauty of the system.” The second time he’s asked if the court should have let states determine whether or not to ban Black and white Americans from being wed, he says “yes.” Finally, asked about Griswold v. Connecticut, the case where the court struck down laws barring contraception, he says that regardless of the issue, he pretty much always believes states should have the right to “manifest their points of view” (because we all talk like Instagram influencers now). To his credit, Braun is being extremely clear and consistent. Say what you will about 1950s-style states’ rights fundamentalism—at least it’s an ethos.Anyway, it feels like it’s been a little while since a conservative politician hastily backtracked in embarrassment over a racist gaffe, rather than doubling down or railing against the fake news for distorting their words. In that way, Braun’s cleanup job is kind of refreshing. At least the man, or his staff, is capable of feeling shame.