Tuesday is the last day for Californians to vote in the state’s gubernatorial recall election, which incumbent Democrat Gavin Newsom is expected to win. His leading Republican opponent is a conservative talk-show host named Larry Elder who has been endorsed by a number of the party’s most nationally prominent right-wing figures and is campaigning against vaccine mandates. (In July, Elder hosted a self-identified doctor from Texas, “Kathy,” on his radio show. She suggested Bill Gates may be using the vaccine to control minority populations and said that COVID-19 can be treated with, among other things, hydrogen peroxide and the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin.)On Monday, NBC News noticed that Elder’s campaign website has begun linking to another site funded by his campaign, StopCAFraud, which asserts that fraud has been “detected” in the results of the recall election, which, if you’ll remember from earlier in this post, is not over:You’re reading that right—a website paid for by Newsom’s main competitor says Newsom has won the election and been “reinstated” in a job he never stopped doing:Benford’s law—it came up a lot in late 2020—is a real statistical idea that can be used to detect potentially fraudulent data sets, but it cannot travel through time to do so in the future. Actual California results will begin coming in at 8 p.m. Pacific time Tuesday, though a winner might not be declared immediately. For now, the state has only released early vote totals by party identification, which, while helpful for prognosticating about the final result, are not the kind of information that could possibly allow one to conclude that Newsom had won his race to remain governor, fraudulently or otherwise.The claimed purpose of Elder’s new site is to collect signatures for a petition demanding a legal review of the election. Its language implies—albeit in a very confusing, unnecessarily elaborate way—that violence might also be ultimately required:Never open the final box! It’s the one most akin to Pandora’s!The other key touch of 2021-style Republican politics—in which anyone who knows how things actually work is perceived with suspicion by core voters—on Elder’s new page is that the petition calls for “a special session of the California legislature to investigate and ameliorate the twisted results of this 2021 Recall Election of Governor Gavin Newsom.” In California, special sessions of the Legislature can only be called by the governor.To review, this document is effectively a letter to Newsom (which probably isn’t actually being sent to him) asking him to call a special session to investigate his own victory in an election that has not yet actually ended.Ultimately, the explanation for what’s happening is next to a checkbox at the bottom of the page, below a form that asks for the signee’s address, email address, and phone number:So, it’s a fundraising thing.