On Wednesday, Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser announced a 32-count indictment against five men responsible for the death of Elijah McClain in 2019. The grand jury’s charge that McClain’s death was indeed the result of manslaughter and criminally negligent homicide is a long overdue result of a renewed investigation, concluding nearly two years to the day after the unarmed 23-year-old Black Aurora resident was killed during a random and unlawful stop and frisk on his way home from purchasing iced tea.While McClain’s family praised the indictment, which is inarguably a good move, it shouldn’t be forgotten why it took so long to get here. Officials and police officers in Aurora, through what we now know to be bankrupt investigations, lied to exonerate the five police officers and paramedics who respectively choked McClain to the point of unconsciousness and then applied—without any medical basis—an overdose of ketamine to a gentle, 143-pound man who by one of the officer’s own admissions posed no threat to anyone. And even as the killers are facing accountability, there is no similar action being taken towards those who prevented the killers from facing any sort of justice up to this point.Some background of this case: On Aug. 24, 2019, McClain was walking home from the store wearing a ski mask, headphones, and carrying a plastic bag with iced tea in it. A man called 911 to report his behavior as “suspicious,” even though there was no crime nearby that had been reported, so officer Nathan Woodyard had nothing to investigate when he confronted McClain. Still, according to an independent investigation of McClain’s death released in February and conducted by policing, constitutional law, and emergency medical experts:Indeed, Woodyard himself admitted that he “felt safe making an approach, he didn’t have any weapons or anything I could see in his hand.” During the interaction, the audio for which was recorded even as the video on police body-cams cut out mid-encounter, McClain said he couldn’t hear the officer’s initial commands over his headphones. The stop quickly escalated from there, as Woodyard was joined by officers Randy Roedema and Jason Rosenblatt. As the indictment states:During the interaction, McClain tried to justify his existence to the officers and ask why he was being stopped, saying:The three officers at that point wrestled McClain to the ground—with one claiming against all evidence that he was going for one of their guns—and placed McClain in a chokehold until he lost consciousness. When he regained consciousness, McClain begged for his life, saying he could not breathe while Roedema, Woodyard, and Rosenblatt held him down while he vomited into his ski mask. McClain was handcuffed at this point and unable to take off the mask and none of the officers removed it even as he vomited.When fire department paramedics Jeremy Cooper and Peter Cichuniec arrived on the scene, they were told that McClain had been placed in a chokehold and lost consciousness. These two paramedics later “denied having knowledge that the [choke] hold had been applied to Mr. McClain,” the indictment notes. Within two minutes of arriving on the scene, and without speaking with him, touching him, or assessing his vital signs, the pair diagnosed McClain with “excited delirium” and gave him a dose of ketamine for a 220-pound man, which was 77 pounds heavier than McClain weighed and 150 percent more than the appropriate dose for a man of his size. As the indictment notes:The circumstances of the death of Elijah McClain, “a massage therapist family and friends described as a gentle and kind introvert, [who] volunteered to play his violin to comfort cats at an animal shelter” as the PBS Newshour reported, are horrifying. So why did it take two years for his killers to face any kind of reckoning?The answer, perhaps unsurprisingly, is because public officials and fellow police officers in Aurora immediately used the apparatuses of local government to stifle any real investigation and to protect the five men who killed Elijah McClain.First, government officials lied directly to the public. One day after he was taken off of life support and died, the Aurora Fire Rescue Department released a one-page press release clearing their paramedics of any wrongdoing and stating without evidence “that the actions of the responders were consistent and aligned with our established protocols. In fact, the initial findings indicate that our personnel demonstrated a high level of technical skill and professionalism while providing care for the patient.”This was disproven by the full independent investigation and the indictment. As the investigation stated:And as the indictment stated:This is a far cry from the “high level of technical skill and professionalism” that Aurora Fire Rescue falsely declared the day after McClain died. The coverup did not stop there, though. Detective Matthew Ingui of the Aurora Police Department’s Major Crime/Homicide Unit led an investigation into McClain’s killing and determined that his killers had done nothing wrong. During the course of the investigation, Ingui demonstrated his clear bias. As the independent investigation notes:McClain obviously did not get “the help that he needed.”On Oct. 21, 2019, Ingui completed his investigatory report, describing a parallel universe from what actually happened the night of McClain’s death and putting the blame for his killing squarely on the victim alone:Again, this was after Woodyard had stated he “felt safe making an approach, he didn’t have any weapons or anything I could see in his hand.” And according to the indictment, there was no actual evidence that McClain went for anyone’s gun:And as the independent inquiry put it, mildly:After this an internal investigation claimed to clear the officers involved of any wrongdoing, it was the district attorney’s turn. One month after Ingui issued his report, Aurora District Attorney Dave Young put out his own statement saying he would decline charges. Young went so far as to say that the actions of officers and paramedics couldn’t be said to have caused the 23-year-old otherwise healthy man’s death, even accidentally. As Young put it in his letter to the police chief:But as the indictment put it, validating the common sense notion that McClain died because of the interaction, the assessment Young cited was clearly false:In his own “investigation,” Young also said:Again, as the independent inquiry found, during the entire investigative process, the officers were all unable to articulate any possible crime McClain might have committed.The case of Elijah McClain’s manslaughter could have—and likely would have—ended with Young’s travesty of a report. Only after uproar over George Floyd’s murder did Colorado Gov. Jared Polis reopen the investigation, which led to Wednesday’s charges.Now McClain’s killers will perhaps face some justice, even if those who covered up their alleged crimes apparently will not. In spite of what we now know, there are still those that defend the actions of the officers that day. On Wednesday morning, for instance, the police union representing Aurora officers released a statement saying nothing had gone wrong. They again blamed McClain for his own death.“Immediately after Elijah McClain’s death, Chief [Nick] Metz stated clearly that Mr. McClain was not murdered by Aurora Police Department officers. Nothing has changed. Our officers did nothing wrong,” the union statement read. “Mr. McClain died due to a combination of exertion due to his decision to violently resist arrest and a pre-existing heart condition. He was alive and talking when the officers turned him over to EMS. There is no evidence that APD officers caused his death.”