On Thursday, the House Oversight Committee held a hearing on S.B. 8, the Texas law that bans abortion after six weeks and has effectively overturned the protections of Roe v. Wade in the state.The Republican Party has studiously avoided discussing the consequences of the ban, which contains no exceptions for rape or incest, apparently because they view it as a political loser. But at Thursday’s hearing, Republican House members called a witness who was willing to stand up for the law, Dr. Ingrid Skop, a Texas-based member of the American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists.Speaking up in favor of the law means defending the provisions forcing some survivors of sexual assault and incest to carry fetuses to term. As committee members noted, the official position of recent Republican presidents from Ronald Reagan to Donald Trump was to seek abortion bans except in the case of incest, rape, and danger to the life of the mother. That, however, is not S.B. 8.You might think that as a Republican witness, Skop would oppose Texas’ provisions forcing assault survivors to carry fetuses to term, or at least avoid discussing the question as so many of the law’s supporters try to do. Instead, Skop repeated the ludicrous position of Texas Gov. Greg Abbott that six weeks—or when most women might just be finding out they are pregnant—was enough time for a sexual assault survivor to get an abortion. Nobody in the hearing room was more disgusted by these remarks than Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who ripped Skop’s “shameful” position to shreds in the most powerful moment of the entire hearing.First, it’s important to have a sense of the exchange that led to Skop’s response. Specifically, under intense questioning from Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi, Skop would not say whether she would want her own daughter to have access to an abortion after six weeks in the horrific event that she were raped.That exchange went in like this:You can watch video of the full exchange here:After Skop’s evasion on the specific personal question, Krishnamoorthi asked whether there should be an exception for rape and incest in the Texas law when none exists and when Abbott recently said he would oppose such a modification to the law. Skop was more precise in her answer, expanding on her position that two weeks after a missed period is enough time for a victim of sexual assault to get an abortion. Here’s that exchange:Again, this has been one of the most outrageous pieces of misinformation about S.B. 8 offered by the law’s mostly silent Republican advocates and here it was getting a hearing on a national stage in the House of Representatives. Ocasio-Cortez was, to say the least, not pleased. The New York congresswoman explained in precise detail—and using her own life as an example—why Skop’s statement was so anti-science, wrong, and damaging to survivors of sexual assault.Here that response is printed in full:And here’s Ocasio-Cortez’s response in full:Republican representatives on the committee spent much of the rest of the hearing trying to stand up for Skop and decry Krishnamoorthi’s question and Ocasio-Cortez’s clarifying factual statements as outrageous personal attacks. Notably, none actively tried to repeat and validate Skop’s statements that six weeks is enough time for a sexual assault survivor to realize she’s pregnant and get an abortion. While Skop at least had the decency to try to defend the law on its merits, once again, the Republicans legislators seemed to be aware of just how shameful and damaging S.B. 8 is in practice and that it’s better to avoid addressing the actual substance of the law in favor of pushing distracting partisan attacks.