At least 10 people were killed and at least another 10 injured when a gunman opened fire late Saturday night at a ballroom dance studio in Monterey Park, California, police officials said.On Sunday afternoon, officials said the suspected gunman—identified as 72-year-old Huu Can Tran—died of a self-inflicted gun shot wound after police surrounded a white van in Torrance.Here is what we know about the mass shooting:• The shooter opened fire at the dance studio at about 10:20 p.m. local time, according to Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Captain Andrew Meyer. Officials pronounced 10 people—five men and five women—dead at the scene of the crime. The remaining were taken to area hospitals, with some in critical condition. Officials said that seven remained hospitalized as of Sunday evening. They also described most of the victims as being in their 50s and 60s.• On Sunday, police surrounded a white van that they believed was connected to the shooting. A SWAT team stormed the van, and police told the Los Angeles Times that the driver of the van had died of a self-inflicted gun shot wound. Police later identified Tran as the suspect and said “several pieces of evidence” linked him to the crime. They also said that they believed he had acted alone.• Investigators say they believe that the shooting is connected to an incident at a second dance studio in nearby Alhambra. Police said in that incident, which occurred after the shooting in Monterey Park, an Asian man had walked in with a gun, but it had been wrestled away from him by others present. The man had then fled the scene.• The shooter’s motive is not yet known. The shooting happened near the site of a Lunar New Year’s celebration. The Los Angeles Times reports that tens of thousands of people had gathered in the area earlier in the day. Monterey Park, located east of L.A., was the first city “in the continental United States to have a majority of residents with Asian ancestry,” according to the New York Times. Today, the city is 65 percent Asian American. Police said they did not know enough to call the shooting a targeted effort, nor did they know if it was a hate crime.• This was the 33rd mass shooting of 2023, according to statistics collected by the Gun Violence Archive.This is a breaking news story. We’ll update as we learn more information. 