A group of Republican House members led by Rep. Eric Burlison (R-MO) put forth legislation Wednesday to repeal the National Firearms Act (1934), thereby stripping the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) of the ability to turn law-abiding gun owners into criminals.The legislation is called the Repeal the NFA Act.Burlison tweeted: “The Repeal the NFA Act will strip the ATF of its authority to criminalize lawful gun owners and undo nearly 90 years of assault on our fundamental freedoms. I’m proud to stand with Americans nationwide as we take this issue head-on.”Rep.-elect Eric Burlison (R-MO) arrives for New Member Orientation check-in and program registration at the Hyatt Regency, in Washington, Sunday, November 13, 2022. (Carolyn Kaster/AP)Burlison told the Daily Caller, “The federal government has used the National Firearms Act for almost a century to violate law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights. The recent ATF pistol brace rule is just another example of these blatant attacks on the constitutional rights of Americans. The ATF-NFA sham needs to end.”Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ), a co-sponsor of Burlison’s bill, noted, “I applaud Rep. Burlison’s legislation that would prevent the federal government from imposing draconian registration mandates on law-abiding gun owners. Anti-gun zealots have enacted policies that create increased government bureaucracy and do nothing to reduce gun violence.”Representative Andy Biggs, a Republican from Arizona, speaks during the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Dallas, Texas, on Friday, August 5, 2022. (Dylan Hollingsworth/Bloomberg via Getty Images)Another co-sponsor of Burlison’s bill, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-FL), is simultaneously pushing to eliminate the ATF.On January 20, 2023, Breitbart News reported Gaetz’s introduction of the Abolish the ATF Act.Gaetz tweeted his intentions, writing, “House Republicans have the ATF in our crosshairs. The continued existence of the ATF is increasingly unwarranted based on their repeated actions to convert law-abiding citizens into felons. My bill today would abolish the ATF once and for all.”Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-FL) speaks to reporters outside the West Wing of the White House following a meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump on April 21, 2020, in Washington, DC. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio and a Turning Point USA Ambassador. AWR Hawkins holds a Ph.D. in Military History, with a focus on the Vietnam War (brown water navy), U.S. Navy since Inception, the Civil War, and Early Modern Europe. Follow him on Instagram: @awr_hawkins. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.