An influx of illegal immigration has forced the United States National Park Service to close Dry Tortugas National Park in the Florida Keys.As Breitbart News reported, nearly 1,400 illegal aliens were apprehended at sea and along the Florida Keys over the New Year’s holiday weekend. More than 360 illegal aliens, specifically, arrived on boats at Dry Tortugas National Park.The illegal aliens were bused from Dry Tortugas National Park to Key West.#BreakingNews @USCGSoutheast reports that all remaining migrants on @DryTortugasNPS, an #updated total of 337 migrants (not including the 90 migrants previously removed by @USCG), were removed from the island & are onboard a @USCG cutter for transfer to Key West, tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/2t8c0Mu4XU— Homeland Security Task Force – Southeast (HSTF-SE) (@HSTF_Southeast) January 5, 2023Officials with the National Park Service told the media that “the closure, which is expected to last several days, is necessary for the safety of visitors and staff because of the resources and space needed to attend to the migrants.”Such attending to the illegal aliens includes providing food, water, and medical services while the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) either gives the arrivals parole to be released into the U.S. interior or has them removed and sent back to their native countries.“What about tending to the American citizens who pay for the national park and may like to visit the national park over Christmas vacation? What about their interests — like the people of this country, the citizens, the taxpayers?” Fox News’s Tucker Carlson said this week of the park’s closure.“Well, [Americans are] not as important as the illegal aliens whom the national park service is spending its time ‘attending to.’ They’re ahead of you in line,” Carlson continued. “If you resent that, you should resent that. That’s a complete outrage. And to accept it as normal or compassionate, which is not, is a big mistake.”A boat that was left along the shoreline after it was used recently to transport Cuban migrants from the island nation to America on January 06, 2023 in Key West, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)A group of people speaking Creole depart the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Dania Beach Border Patrol Station, as families await the arrival of Cuban migrants in Dania Florida on Thursday, Jan. 5, 2023. (Al Diaz/Miami Herald/Tribune News Service via Getty Images)People look over a boat that was left along the shoreline after it was used to transport Cuban migrants from the island nation on January 05, 2023 in Marathon, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Migrants from Cuba line up to board a bus to be driven to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection station as they are processed on January 05, 2023 in Marathon, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Migrants from Cuba wait to be processed at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Marathon Border Patrol Station on January 05, 2023 in Marathon, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Members of two groups of Cuban migrants from Matanzas — one with 19 people, the other with 12 — stand in the sun on the side of the U.S. in the Middle Keys island of Duck Key Monday morning. (Pedro Portal/Miami Herald/Tribune News Service via Getty Images)Migrants from Cuba line up to board a bus to be driven to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection station as they are processed on January 05, 2023 in Marathon, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Cuban migrants sit on the floor while waiting to be processed. (Carl Juste/Miami Herald/Tribune News Service via Getty Images)John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Email him at jbinder@breitbart.com. Follow him on Twitter here. 