Conservatives have cheered the passage of the House Republican rules packages; here is a breakdown of some of the most important changes.The House Rules package provides:Conservatives across the spectrum have applauded the House Republican rules package. Heritage Action Executive Director said in a statement on Monday:Today, the House will vote to roll back a number of changes to House Rules that Nancy Pelosi utilized to centralize her power as Speaker and silence the views of most members of Congress. By reforming the way bills are considered, this rules package will restore the voice of all elected members in the legislative process. As a result of these reforms, conservatives will have the tools they need to fight the Biden administration and stand up for American families that have borne the costs of the disastrous policies of the last two years of liberal governance.Once the House passes this rules package, the real work of governing will begin. Conservatives are pleased to see that the Republican majority has already indicated that they will focus their legislative agenda on our nation’s most pressing issues. Heritage Action looks forward to working with Congress to advance bold policy solutions over easy short cuts. Specifically, Heritage Action’s stance on issues like protecting the sanctity of life and robust immigration priorities should serve as examples of a bold conservative legislative agenda. Now, Congress must get to work.Tea Party Patriots Action Honorary Chairman said in a statement on Monday:We applaud the House Republicans who voted for today’s rules package. This package would not have been possible without the 21 courageous Members of Congress who insisted that Speaker McCarthy’s promotion be tied to these vitally important reforms. These reforms include restoring the ‘motion to vacate’ rules that were in place before then-Speaker Pelosi changed them in 2019, a cap on spending, the end of the ‘Omnibus,’ and a Judiciary subcommittee that will focus on the ‘weaponization’ of the federal government, among many other things. She added, “These reforms will empower positive change over the course of the 118th Congress.”Sean Moran is a policy reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @SeanMoran3.