During a Tuesday morning press conference, interim deputy chief of the Michigan State University Department of Police, Chris Rozman, made clear the Monday night Michigan State University attacker had no connection to the school.On Monday night, Breitbart News reported Rozman’s 11 p.m. press conference, in which he said five people had been injured in the attack and some of those injuries were life-threatening.A photo of the suspect of a shooting at Michigan State University, released by local police. (AFP)Rozman made clear that the information shared in the Monday night press conference was preliminary and could change.A mass shooting at Michigan State University left three people dead and five others injured Monday evening, triggering an hourslong manhunt and shelter-in-place orders before the suspect died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said https://t.co/tnTGagNx35— CNN (@CNN) February 14, 2023During a Tuesday press conference, CNN noted that Rozman updated information, noting that three people were killed and five critically wounded in the attack.Students gather on the campus of Michigan State University after a shelter in place order was lifted early Tuesday, February 14, 2023, in East Lansing, Michigan. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)Rozman pointed out that the alleged 43-year-old attacker died off-campus of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. He explained that police have no motive in the attack and observed that the alleged attacker had no ties to the university.Rozman said, “We have no idea why he came to campus to do this tonight.”AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio and a Turning Point USA Ambassador. AWR Hawkins holds a PhD in Military History, with a focus on the Vietnam War (brown water navy), U.S. Navy since Inception, the Civil War, and Early Modern Europe. Follow him on Instagram: @awr_hawkins. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.