EAGLE PASS, Texas — A Del Rio Sector Border Patrol agent reportedly shot at a suspected human smuggler after the suspect allegedly attempted to strike the agent with the vehicle. The incident took place along the Texas border with Mexico near Eagle Pass.A source operating under the umbrella of U.S. Customs and Border Protection told Breitbart Texas that a suspected human smuggler attempted to back his vehicle into a Del Rio Sector agent late Monday night. The smuggler then reportedly attempted to flee from the agent.The Border Patrol agent then shot at the suspect to stop the assault, according to the source. It is not clear how many shots were fired.  EMS personnel transported an unidentified injured person from the vehicle to an area hospital. The injuries are reportedly not related to the shooting. The driver was not the injured party.The shooting took place on the north side of the border town of Eagle Pass on Thompson Ranch Road.The driver is reportedly being charged under 18 USC 111 for assaulting a federal officer, according to a second source within CBP.Del Rio Sector Border Patrol officials, responding to an inquiry from Breitbart stated:On February 14, 2023, at approximately 12:30 a.m., U.S. Border Patrol Agents were involved in a Use of Force incident near Eagle Pass, Texas. One subject was injured and transported to a hospital by EMS. The incident is under review by Customs and Border Protection’s Office of Professional Responsibility and FBI. Additional information will be shared as it becomes available.Two hours later, in the same area, a migrant woman fell from a train. The train rolled over her leg and severed it from her body. Local police and rescue workers responded to the scene.An air ambulance transported the injured woman to San Antonio. Her name, nationality, and medical condition are unknown at this time.Just over a month ago, officials rescued 12 migrants from a train loaded with Corona beer in this same area along Thompson Road, Breitbart Texas reported. One of these migrants also had to be transported by air to a San Antonio hospital for severe dehydration.Agents responded to the rail yard and found nine migrants in a dehydrated state after being locked inside the rail car for an undetermined amount of time, Del Rio Sector officials told Breitbart. Agents identified the migrants as citizens of Mexico and Guatemala.Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior news contributor for the Breitbart Texas-Border team. He is an original member of the Breitbart Texas team. Price is a regular panelist on Fox 26 Houston’s What’s Your Point? Sunday-morning talk show. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX and Facebook.Randy Clark is a 32-year veteran of the United States Border Patrol.  Prior to his retirement, he served as the Division Chief for Law Enforcement Operations, directing operations for nine Border Patrol Stations within the Del Rio, Texas, Sector. Follow him on Twitter @RandyClarkBBTX.EDITOR’S Note: This article and headline have been updated with additional information supplied by Border Patrol officials in response to an inquiry from Breitbart Texas. 