Figures from the National Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) show over 330 police officers were shot in 2022 and 62 were killed in the shooting incidents.The New York Post reported FOP figures showing 331 officers shot in total.The 62 that were killed represent a 32 percent increase over the number of officers shot and killed in 2020.According to the FOP, many of the officers were shot in “ambush-style” attacks. There were 89 different “ambush-style” attacks, and 126 officers were shot in those attacks.Thirty-two of the overall 62 officer shooting deaths were the result of “ambush-style” attacks.Breitbart News reported Riverside County Sheriff’s deputy Darnell Calhoun was shot and killed while responding to a call on Friday afternoon.An American flag lays on the open casket of Bay St. Louis, Miss., police Sgt. Steven Robin, 34, during the double funeral with fellow Officer Branden Estorffe at the Bay St. Louis community center, Wednesday, Dec. 21, 2022. Robin and Estorffe died in a shoot-out in the Motel 6 parking lot on U.S. 90 in Bay St. Louis while responding to a welfare call. (AP Photo/Rogelio V. Solis)CBS News noted it was about 4:20 p.m. when Calhoun “responded to the 18000 block of Hilldale Lane in the unincorporated area of Lakeland Village regarding unknown trouble.”As Calhoun got closer to the residence in question the suspect opened fire on him. The attack proved fatal and Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco issued a press release on Calhoun’s death, which said, in part: “The Department is saddened to announce the death of Deputy Darnell Calhoun, most recently assigned to the Lake Elsinore Station. Deputy Calhoun was shot and killed in the line of duty on Friday, January 13, 2023. He was 30 years old.”AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio and a Turning Point USA Ambassador. AWR Hawkins holds a PhD in Military History, with a focus on the Vietnam War (brown water navy), U.S. Navy since Inception, the Civil War, and Early Modern Europe. Follow him on Instagram: @awr_hawkins. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.