Los Angeles County Sheriff Robert Luna gave a press conference Sunday in which he announced the Lunar New Year celebration shooting suspect had allegedly used a “semiautomatic assault pistol” to shoot and kill ten people Saturday night.AFP indicated Luna pointed out the attacker did not use an “assault rifle.” Rather, Luna said the suspect used “a magazine-fed semiautomatic assault pistol … that had an extended large-capacity magazine attached to it.”Sheriff Luna and Officials Discuss the Recent Mass Shooting in Monterey ParkCounty and Community Leaders will discuss the recent mass shooting that occurred in Monterey Park.Posted by Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department on Sunday, January 22, 2023Luna also noted that the shooting suspect is dead.Breitbart News pointed out that the Los Angeles Times reported the gunman shot and killed himself Sunday before he could be apprehended by police in Torrance, California.CBS security and law enforcement analyst James A. Gagliano tweeted:#Breaking: LA Sheriff Robert G. Luna conducts presser, naming 72-year-old HUU CAN TRAN as alleged mass shooter in Torrance, CA. Shooter deceased, via self-inflicted gunshot, as LA SWAT closed in.Subject’s weapon described as “magazine-fed assault pistol w/extended magazine.”— James A. Gagliano (@JamesAGagliano) January 23, 2023Sheriff Luna did not explain what, precisely, a “semiautomatic assault pistol” is, but the BBC reported that Luna thought it might not be legal in California.The deceased shooting suspect has been identified as 72-year-old Huu Can Tran.AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio and a Turning Point USA Ambassador. AWR Hawkins holds a Ph.D. in Military History, with a focus on the Vietnam War (brown water navy), U.S. Navy since Inception, the Civil War, and Early Modern Europe. Follow him on Instagram: @awr_hawkins. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.