Prosecutors dismissed felony gun charges against the alleged Michigan State University attacker in 2019, charging him with a misdemeanor.The felony charge was the result of Anthony McRae allegedly carrying a concealed firearm on his person without having a concealed carry permit.The Detroit News reported that the misdemeanor charges placed the alleged attacker on probation for a total of 18 months. Had the felony charges been pursued, the attacker would have been barred from gun possession for life. But the ban on buying and possessing a gun was only temporary in light of the misdemeanor probation.The Detroit Free Press noted Ingham County prosecutor John Dewane saying, “The misdemeanor conviction did not prevent him from purchasing, owning, or possessing a firearm after he successfully completed his terms of probation.”SUSPECT PHOTOS: The suspect is a Black male, shorter in stature, red shoes, jean jacket, wearing a baseball cap that is navy with a lighter brim. pic.twitter.com/9blppnX5U3— MSU Police and Public Safety (@msupolice) February 14, 2023Dewane also noted, “[The alleged attacker] would have been barred from legally purchasing, owning, or possessing a firearm if he would have been convicted of the (concealed weapons) charge.”The alleged attacker’s probation ended in May 2021.In an earlier report, Breitbart News indicated that police said the alleged attacker had no connection to Michigan State University and that law enforcement does not know what his motive was.AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio and a Turning Point USA Ambassador. AWR Hawkins holds a PhD in Military History, with a focus on the Vietnam War (brown water navy), U.S. Navy since Inception, the Civil War, and Early Modern Europe. Follow him on Instagram: @awr_hawkins. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.