The California man accused of hitting a cyclist and fatally stabbing him reportedly spoke about “white privilege” at the scene.According to a Dana Point resident, she and relatives heard a loud noise before the attack on 58-year-old Dr. Michael Mammone, and also claimed they heard the suspect make the racial comment, reports said Monday.The driver allegedly killed Mammone, who was riding his bicycle at the time. Officials identified the man in the fatal stabbing as Vanroy Evan Smith, 39. However, there was reportedly no known relationship between the two men.Vanroy Evan Smith's ex-wife 'feared for her safety' before he allegedly mowed down, stabbed Michael Mammone: dad https://t.co/mCJ9XcEjTw pic.twitter.com/4cEH7tpuKX— New York Post (@nypost) February 4, 2023At the scene, bystanders detained the suspect whom authorities eventually arrested.Smith was charged with murder, and when he was taken into custody, he was ineligible for bail. However, his bail is now set at $1 million, KCAL reported Friday.Surveillance video shows a white car speed between two other vehicles and hit the doctor, who was thrown into the air. When bystanders rushed over to help, the suspect allegedly began stabbing the doctor with a knife:The suspect’s ex-wife told the New York Post she was “horrified” by the alleged incident, the outlet reported Saturday.Marla Hart said there was never any physical violence when the couple were together, adding “We divorced because we were incompatible.”“I feel completely horrified by the entire thing, horrified it was Vanroy, and horrified it was that man who died. It makes no sense what happened. This was the death of an innocent man. I mourn for the victim’s family, myself and my kids,” Hart continued.REST IN PEACE: Michael John Mammone, a doctor at Providence Mission Hospital Laguna Beach, has been identified as the…Posted by Fox 11 Los Angeles on Thursday, February 2, 2023Smith is scheduled to appear in court Tuesday.A friend of the doctor’s who is also a nurse told Inside Edition, “It was definitely an emotional shock for all of us that worked with him. Dr. Mammone, he treated a lot of us like family.”As the crime wave sweeps across President Joe Biden’s (D) America, citizens are “more likely now than at any time over the past five decades to say there is more crime in their local area than there was a year ago,” Gallup reported in October.“The 56% of U.S. adults who report an increase in crime where they live marks a five-percentage-point uptick since last year and is the highest by two points in Gallup’s trend dating back to 1972,” the article said.