The following content is sponsored by Paradigm Press.When it comes to big financial predictions, renowned financial analyst Jim Rickards doesn’t mince words.An ex-CIA insider and financial advisor to the Pentagon, Rickards has been a leading voice in global finance for decades.He was a major influence in negotiating the end of Iranian crisis during the Reagan administration, and his bestselling book Currency Wars is often cited as one of the most important economic works of the last decade.Today, he’s sounding an alarm most people don’t want to hear – but according to him, that’s a big mistake.“The U.S. dollar as we know it is doomed,” he says. “President Biden signed the death warrant himself on March 9 with Executive Order 14067.”According to Rickards, buried inside this little-known federal order is specific language that could lead not only to legal government surveillance of all U.S. citizens…But also total control over your bank accounts and purchases.“This is a pretty sinister move by the president, to tell you the truth,” he says. “And I bet 99 percent of Americans have no idea about it.“What’s worse, it could spell disaster for the wealth of millions of Americans – at a time when inflation is already destroying their purchasing power.”So what’s in Executive Order 14067 that makes it so devious?Well, as Rickards points out in his critical new exposé, it sets the stage for a fully trackable “spyware” version of the U.S. dollar.That would be a serious threat to the privacy and personal security of all Americans – and give a disturbing amount of control over your money, straight to the U.S. government.And if you think this is some far-off pipe dream, think again.“This is happening right now,” Rickards says. “Executive Order 14067 already gives President Biden unprecedented power over the future of the U.S. dollar.“And sadly most Americans will be completely caught off guard by it.”That’s why Rickards just released a new must-see presentation on how you can prepare for this critical event NOW – and he includes a critical way for you to actually profit from the fallout.Click here to watch this urgent new presentation from Jim Rickards now.“Look, between inflation, supply chain issues and unstable markets, American savings accounts are getting crushed right now. And Biden is getting pressure from all sides to do something about it.“I believe it’s only a matter of time before he pulls the trigger on this ‘spyware’ dollar. Americans need to prepare now, before it’s too late.”Click here to check out Jim Rickards’ critical new presentation while you still can.