The following content is sponsored by Paradigm Press.On November 15, 2022, several of the world’s biggest banks agreed to a shocking new plan – one that could lead to a complete overthrow of the U.S. dollar as we know it.Sponsored by the New York Federal Reserve, participants in this plan include banking giants like Wells Fargo, Citigroup, HSBC, and Mastercard, just to name a few.The pilot program – dubbed “Project Cedar” – would convert regular U.S. dollars into a brand-new type of dollar, which could have massive implications for all American citizens.But “Project Cedar” is just the second step in a complete overhaul of the U.S. banking system.The first step was announced on March 9, 2022, when President Biden signed Executive Order 14067.This Executive Order gave legal provisions for this new U.S. dollar and could give the U.S. government unprecedented control over your money and freedom.In fact, it could even pave the way for things like:“I’ve been warning about this for months,” says renowned macroeconomist Jim Rickards.“Now with the launch of ‘Project Cedar’, the wheels are fully in motion – and I don’t believe anything can stop it.”Mr. Rickards is one of the world’s foremost financial experts and has been a respected advisor to the CIA, the Pentagon, and multiple U.S. presidents.The way he sees it, this is the start of a sinister new plot against everyday Americans.“We’re in for a major upheaval of the U.S. dollar,” he says.“In fact, I predict the third Great Dollar Earthquake has already started…“The first was Roosevelt confiscating private gold in 1934…“The second was Nixon abandoning the gold standard in 1971…“Now,” he says, “This plan could pave the way for ‘retiring’ the U.S. dollar – and replacing it with a disturbing new alternative.”In his critical new presentation, he reveals the shocking truth about this new threat to the U.S. dollar…And why every single American citizen needs to know about it.Click here to watch this urgent new presentation from Jim Rickards now.