The following article by Ron Paul is sponsored content by Birch Gold. I am infuriated. President Biden is attacking American retirement savers with a vicious financial scheme. And the mainstream media is letting him get away with it!He couldn’t get his “Build Back Better” bill passed last year because everyone knew it would cause more inflation. So he stubbornly pushed it through Congress as a renamed “H.R. 5376,” otherwise known as the “Inflation Reduction Act.”In Biden’s own words:“I think we can break the package up, get as much as we can now and come back and fight for the rest later.”And they certainly did get a lot out of this bill. Breitbart’s Sean Moran reported in August:The Inflation Reduction Act would also add more “fuel” to the “inflation fire,” according to Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee. He explained that the Inflation Reduction Act utilizes budget gimmicks and fake offsets to mask the true cost of the bill. Smith said the bill would add $114 billion to the debt when accounting for Manchin’s fake gimmicks.Without a doubt, this sneaky move confirms what I’ve always believed. First, governments will never stop printing fiat currency until it is worthless! And second, anyone keeping their savings in dollars or stocks should consider smarter options TODAY!So is there something you can do?YES! Physical gold offers an opportunity to escape wealth confiscation. And, if you have an IRA or 401(k), the best way to protect your retirement savings with gold is through a PHYSICAL GOLD IRA.Why? Because by doing this you avoid taxation just like with any other retirement account. And the gold is in PHYSICAL form, which is far more trustworthy than “paper” gold. What’s more, you won’t pay a DIME in penalties or taxes when you sell your stocks and buy gold.This is the perfect scenario if you are approaching or are already in retirement. To learn more, click here to request your FREE 20-page Info Kit on Gold IRAs.This no-charge guide, courtesy of my friends at Birch Gold Group, reveals the fastest and easiest way to protect what’s yours. And this information is FREE, with no strings or obligations attached.Listen, Democrats are not going to stop printing money since it helps them win elections. And this is why the U.S. Dollar will continue to be eroded in value. So if you want to keep your retirement dreams alive, you MUST diversify into precious metals TODAY. To learn how, get your FREE 20-page Info Kit on Gold IRAs by clicking here.