The Global Disinformation Index (GDI), a foreign think tank headquartered in the United Kingdom, released an assessment of American online media designed to blacklist conservative media outlets and choke off their advertising revenue. The information is kept on what GDI calls its “Dynamic Exclusion List.”Ad networks — including most prominently Xandr — which is owned by Microsoft — are now using this list to refuse to allow advertising on conservative media websites.Microsoft has yet to respond to a request for comment regarding Xandr’s use of the Dynamic Exclusion List, which is censoring conservative outlets. GDI in December released its report that detailed the alleged “disinformation risk” for the American online media market in partnership with the Global Disinformation Lab (GDIL), a think tank at the University of Texas at Austin that generates policy recommendations and solutions to combat disinformation.  The GDI report on the American online media landscape reviewed 69 news outlets, and listed ten outlets it found are the most at risk of spreading disinformation, and ten outlets that are the least likely to spread disinformation. GDI rated conservative sites as having the highest risk for spreading disinformation and liberal websites as the most trusted.The report found many left-wing outlets that were the least risky, which include: GDI labeled NPR, AP News, the New York Times, and ProPublica as the “four minimum-risk sites.” A report from the Washington Examiner detailed that, citing a senior executive, Breitbart News is on the GDI’s Dynamic Exclusion List. In contrast, the outlets at most risk of sharing disinformation were right-leaning, which include:GDI has not responded to several requests from Breitbart News for comment about the nature of its Dynamic Exclusion List and the organizations it partners with, as well as requests to connect with a spokesperson. GDI did not respond to comments requests on December 13, December 27, January 5, and January 23.After these many press inquiries, GDI has refused to release its Dynamic Exclusion List despite assertions on its website that its work is guided by “neutrality”, “independence” and “transparency.”Breitbart is on the list – somewhere.  But, again, GDI refuses to disclose the full List.GDI was founded by Clare Melford and Professor Daniel Rogers founded GDI.According to the World Economic Forum, Melford led the transition of the European Council of Foreign Relations to independent status from George Soros’s Open Society Foundation. Before her time at GDI, she was the CEO of the International Business Leaders Forum and managing director of MTV Networks, Nordics.Rogers is the cofounder and executive director of GDI. Before GDI, he founded and led Terbium Labs, an information security and dark web intelligence startup, and worked in the American intelligence community. He also serves as an adjunct professor at New York University and is a fellow at the Truman National Security project where Biden National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, is a Board Member. Sullivan was one of the ringleaders of the Trump/Russia disinformation narrative.The Daily Caller News Foundation reported that GDI also receives taxpayer money from the U.S. State Department’s, Global Engagement Center (GEC).GDI found that the sites at the highest risk for spreading disinformation “published content with far fewer fact-based Ledes and far more Bias, Negative targeting and Sensational language than the rest of the sample.”GDI holds that bias, sensationalism, and targeting often result in disinformation.Critically, GDI does not even purport to say which outlets disseminate actual disinformation – but rather, they purport to say which outlets are at risk of spreading disinformation. The analysis appears to be only forward-looking, trying to divine which outlets may spread disinformation in the future. However, many of GDI’s most trustworthy outlets may have spread, according to GDI’s own definition, disinformation in the past.In effect, GDI creates a system like Tom Cruise’s famous “Minority Report,” where the disinformation think tank will attempt to predict if an outlet is in danger of spreading disinformation.GDI said in their interim report that disinformation often relates to adversarial, sensational, and targeting reporting, not necessarily reporting that is false.The organization defines disinformation as “adversarial narratives, which are intentionally misleading; financially or ideologically motivated; and/or, aimed at fostering long-term social, political or economic conflict; and which create a risk of harm by undermining trust in science or targeting at-risk individuals or institutions.”Many of GDI’s least risky websites have often exhibited bias, pushed false narratives, and sensationalized stories. These outlets have more of an impact on the American online media landscape as they are often considered the “paper of record,” such as the New York Times, or are ubiquitous wire services relied upon for their speed and accuracy by nearly every outlet in the country.Breitbart News has reported some of the issues facing GDI’s most trustworthy outlets. They include blatant disinformation about a Russian missile strike in Poland, the Hunter Biden laptop story, and nonexistent Trump-Russia collusion. HuffPostGDI says that HuffPost “featured fact-based, unbiased content free from sensational text or visuals.”Here are some of the more controversial pieces of actual disinformation HuffPost has shared:New York TimesThe Times, the “Gray Lady,” and the “Paper of Record,” are just a few of the names that have described the venerable station that the New York Times has in society as the quintessential paper in America. However, the paper has lost its way, more so than just covering up the massacre of millions of people under the Soviet Union in the 1930s.Here are some of their latest controversies:Washington PostThe Washington Post has been touted by GDI as a paper that largely avoids sensational or negatively targeted reporting, even though it has occasional bias. It has been rated as such despite the outlet’s rampant targeting of then-President Donald Trump and his administration.Associated PressThe Associated Press serves a vital role in the American media landscape; as a wire service, outlets rely on it for quick and thorough stories. It also carries the important role of declaring election victories. But, it also falls prey to fake news and has pushed false and sensational narratives, or, in GDI’s words, disinformation.National Public Radio (NPR)Here are a few of the high-profile stories that NPR got wrong:ProPublicaProPublica is a George Soros-funded left-wing investigative site built to attack conservatives. Yet, GDI describes ProPublica as a “nonprofit with an emphasis on investigative journalism,” while ignoring its funding from the fanatical Soros. USA Today“USA Today received a low-risk rating based on strong scores across the board. The site could improve in terms of relying on a wide range of sources and being sure to clearly attribute statistics, quotations and external media,” GDI wrote of USA Today.However, the highly syndicated paper was engulfed in scandal and has reported disinformation, including:BuzzFeedGDI scored BuzzFeed News highly based on “neutrality and journalistic best practices,” despite the former editor-in-chief Ben Smith becoming infamous for, what Breitbart News coined, “BenSmithing.” In the words of the New York Times, BenSmithing is:What is BenSmithing? To the Republicans who coined the term last year, it refers to writing an article that supposedly tackles a Democratic Party scandal, but is actually intended to dismiss the issue, something they believe Mr. Smith did often for President Obama. Here are some of BuzzFeed’s stories that could be perceived as spreading disinformation:The Global Disinformation Index, as a foreign think tank, has injected itself into the American landscape to blacklist conservative media outlets in order to choke off their advertising revenue via its Dynamic Exclusion List. Meanwhile, it ignores the past inaccuracies, biases, and targeting narratives of establishment, left-wing outlets such as the New York Times, HuffPost, NPR, and the Associated Press.  Sean Moran is a policy reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @SeanMoran3.